CodeShield Developer Notes

the current stage
The scanner has now moved beyond the earlier v3 complexity-only integration. The current version supports a fuller prototype pipeline like

input handling
preprocessing
Python parse validation
cyclomatic complexity integration
security red-flag detection
vulnerability density calculation
TDI calculation
risk classification
CLI output
Streamlit dashboard output

The previous placeholder fields for redFlags and tdi have now been replaced with working values.



Setup before running

1. Check Python is installed:

python3 --version

If this does not work, install Python 3 from the official Python website or use Homebrew on Mac:

brew install python

3. Upgrade pip:

python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip

4. Install dependencies:

python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt

If this does not work, install Streamlit manually:

python3 -m pip install streamlit


5. Check Streamlit is installed:

streamlit --version

If the streamlit command does not work, run the dashboard using:

python3 -m streamlit run src/app.py




How to run the CLI version

From the project root, run the default snippet demo:

python3 src/main.py

Run a low-risk file scan:

python3 src/main.py samples/test.py

Run the main high-risk demo scan:

python3 src/main.py samples/full_demo_risk.py

The CLI prints a readable summary and raw JSON output.




How to demo the dashboard

From the project root, run:

streamlit run src/app.py

Alternative if the streamlit command is not recognised:

python3 -m streamlit run src/app.py

Then open the local URL shown in the terminal, usually:

http://localhost:8501




local path: ~/scannersdp8




Current implementation evidence

CLI evidence:
python3 src/main.py samples/test.py
python3 src/main.py samples/full_demo_risk.py

Dashboard evidence:
streamlit run src/app.py


Known limitations

The prototype currently supports Python only
Repository link scanning is not implemented and remains future work
Security detection is pattern-based and explainable, not a full static analysis engine.
Vulnerability density can appear high on small files because it is calculated per 1,000 lines of code.
Complexity calculation depends on the agreed decision-point approach and should be documented by Abdul.

Remaining work for the group

Security Expert:
Review and approve the current red-flag rules and recommendations.

Tester:
Run test cases for low-risk, high-risk, invalid input, CLI output and dashboard output.

Abdul:
Document the complexity calculation assumptions, explain the decision-point approach, and produce before/after refactoring evidence.

Analyst/Designers:
Update UML/design/report sections to reflect the final pipeline and dashboard.

Project Manager:
Update Jira evidence, task ownership and weekly progress.
